results/pascal/m1max_results.md, before:

# Pascal Voc Dataset Results for M1 Max Macbook Pro

I ran the tests a few times and they are generally consistent. The results in the table aren't averages. Once I run them a few more times, I will update it with averages.

## Hardware Specs
* M1 Max
* 24 GPU
* 2/8 CPU
* 32G unified memory
* Monterey
* CreateML 3

## Pascal Dataset

* training 13,299 
* validation 3,302 
* classes 20
* zipped file 

## Table of results

Screen shots of each run is in the folders.

* elapsed time is in minutes from the reported start and finish
* training accuracy is the final average accuracy across all classes
* validation accuracy is the final average accuracy across all classes
* top class Intersetion/Union reported from the training dataset
* top class Intersetion/Union reported from the validation dataset

|Batch size | elapsed time | Train Accuracy | Validation Accuracy | Top Train I/U | Top Val I/U | Peak Memory |
|-----------|:-------------|:---------------|:--------------------|:--------------|:------------|:------------|
| 16       | 7 min      | 38             | 37                  | 71            | 67         | 1.55G |
| 32       | 11 min     | 44             | 41                  | 74            | 70         | 2.9G |
| 64       | 17 min     | 48             | 44                  | 79            | 76         | 5.85G |
| 128      | 30 min     | 51             | 46                  | 83            | 77         | 11.0G |
| 256      | 59 min     | 56             | 48                  | 86            | 80         | 22.0G |

[https://developer.apple.com/documentation/createml/mlobjectdetectormetrics] - Documentation on intersection/union and what Apple means in the context of object detection. If you're new to YOLO, read the paper to get a better understanding.

[https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolov2/] - YOLOv2 website

[https://pjreddie.com/media/files/papers/YOLOv3.pdf] - YOLOV3 paper

## Observations

During the training, the GPU was above 90% utilization. CPU usage was around 50%. Performance was similar to COCO Dataset.

Commit message:

adding note about larger batch size

results/pascal/m1max_results.md, after:

# Pascal Voc Dataset Results for M1 Max Macbook Pro

I ran the tests a few times and they are generally consistent. The results in the table aren't averages. Once I run them a few more times, I will update it with averages.

## Hardware Specs
* M1 Max
* 24 GPU
* 2/8 CPU
* 32G unified memory
* Monterey
* CreateML 3

## Pascal Dataset

* training 13,299 
* validation 3,302 
* classes 20
* zipped file 

## Table of results

Screen shots of each run is in the folders.

* elapsed time is in minutes from the reported start and finish
* training accuracy is the final average accuracy across all classes
* validation accuracy is the final average accuracy across all classes
* top class Intersetion/Union reported from the training dataset
* top class Intersetion/Union reported from the validation dataset

|Batch size | elapsed time | Train Accuracy | Validation Accuracy | Top Train I/U | Top Val I/U | Peak Memory |
|-----------|:-------------|:---------------|:--------------------|:--------------|:------------|:------------|
| 16       | 7 min      | 38             | 37                  | 71            | 67         | 1.55G |
| 32       | 11 min     | 44             | 41                  | 74            | 70         | 2.9G |
| 64       | 17 min     | 48             | 44                  | 79            | 76         | 5.85G |
| 128      | 30 min     | 51             | 46                  | 83            | 77         | 11.0G |
| 256      | 59 min     | 56             | 48                  | 86            | 80         | 22.0G |

[https://developer.apple.com/documentation/createml/mlobjectdetectormetrics] - Documentation on intersection/union and what Apple means in the context of object detection. If you're new to YOLO, read the paper to get a better understanding.

[https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolov2/] - YOLOv2 website

[https://pjreddie.com/media/files/papers/YOLOv3.pdf] - YOLOV3 paper

## Batches larger than 128

CreateML app doesn't let you use batches larger than 128, but you can get around that. I used vi to edit the batch setting in "model container" folder. When you start the app, the batch will be blank. Training will still run, but the batch drop down is blank. For Pascal dataset, using batch size larger than 128 does improve the accuracy, but 256 is the practical limit on 32G of memory. If you have a M1 Max with 64G of memory, you should be able to use batch 512.
